Frank Herbert
was a really clever guy who liked deserts and spacey Shit so
in 1965 he wrote Dune. The story starts on a planet about
20,000 years into the future where-Wait so several thousand years before the beginning of the book this guy called Holtzman gets into an accident
And just as he's about to die someone uploads his brain Into a computer and he studies all of the physics and invents like interstellar
travel and tells everyone how to do it. Anyway, thousands of tears after that mankind has a galactic empire. There's this itty-bitty
desert planet called Dune- Wait, hang on, so back up a second. We need to talk about the Bene Gesserit first who
were like the sacred order of chicks who have been around for ages
they can control people with a thing called "THE VOICE"
As, well as being resistant to poison, being able to choose the gender of their babies, choosing whether they conceive or not.
And they've had this breeding program going on for ages where they want to breed the Kwisatz Haderach
Which is this perfect godlike creature that used to conquer the Universe, okay so now, we get to Dune which Is this- oh shit
okay, wait, sorry
one more thing. Um, so robots got a bit like
mouthy a few thousand years ago so humans Just wiped them out and now it's illegal to build an AI so everything has to be
done by humans, that means all
multiplication, addition and piloting fucking spaceships, so this class of people exists called the Mentats who are these slick
goofy head cats who are super duper clever. Now anyone who's anyone has their own personal Mentat for
strategizing or crossword puzzles or whatever and they come in three different flavors:
Hypothesizers who hypothesize, Memorizers who memorize and Processers who
Well, you get it, yeah? So this brings us to Dune, which is really called Arrakis, where the story starts with
Oh... yeah uh the emperor of the Galaxy is called the Emperor and he just, like, rules stuff
Cuz yeah. So Dune is- Oh and there's this stuff called spice and it's pretty much the most expensive commodity in the Universe because it
slows aging and pilots use it to guide spaceships and Bene Gesserit chicks
take it to recall everything that happened to their ancestors ever (a bit like
Assassin's Creed but... better) and you can use it to make coats too and hats so that's nice, isn't it?
And the only place you can get spice is-
Oh fuck what's it called? Uh uuh DUUUUUNE
Yes welcome to Arrakis
also known as Dune a desert planet where it's so hot you have to wear a special suit to keep the moisture in your body
and 100-foot sandworms chill in The desert and eat people. So there's the indigenous population, the Fremen,
who have sexy blue glowing eyes because they use so much spice, and then there are the Houses. On Dune
we find House Harkonnen, who are generally quite fats and enjoy torture, and House Atreides, who are pretty good-looking and the governed by this
guy called Leto Atreides.
Leto has a son called Paul and a wife who's kind of secretly Bene Gesserit and was supposed to have a daughter but loved
Leto so much she gave him a son instead, and the Bene Gesserit are, like, quite pissed about this because it sort of fucked up their
breeding program, and the whole Atreides family have come to Dune to wrestle control the spice from the Harkonnen, who were probably just eating it anyway.
Things go, uh, less than well and the Harkonnen's pretty much destroyed, House Atreides killing Leto and forcing
his wife and child into the desert. There they
Join forces with the Fremen and Jessica teaches them to do all that Bene Gesserit nonsense and everyone becomes a wizard. Jessica drinks
concentrated spice becoming a cosmic badass meanwhile bestowing the same power
on her Daughter Alia, who is still in the womb. After loads of spice and having all that training from his mom
Paul begins to see into the future and concocts a plan to begin the jihad against the Harkonnen using the Fremen. However, he
also sees that if he's not careful the Fremen will go too far with it and take the jihad out into space and just generally
fuck everything up. Just for good measure, he knocks up a Fremen chick
and has a son who he calls Leto after his dead father but he gets a bit like killed later so we don't have to talk about him.
Meanwhile Alia, Paul's wizardy sister, is captured by the Harkonnen but it's alright because she kills the Baron Harkonnen because she's, you know,
got wizard shit going on. Paul has more or less become the head of the Fremen and under the cover of a sandstorm leads an
attack on the capital city where the Harkonnens are hauled up. He confronts the newly installed baron Harkonnen, who's like "Could you fuck
off a bit, please?" and Paul stabs him up quite bad. And now in control of Arrakis, Paul gives the Emperor a little ring on
the old dog and bone and says "Alright  you old China (?)
yeah, that spice thing
Uh that's mine now so if you don't stop being Emperor I'm gonna blow it all up and that means
no more space travel. Okay?" And he gives the Bene Gesserit a ring aswell
and says much the same thing and everyone pretty much bows down to Paul and Paul becomes Johnny Big Balls of Dune and the
Galaxy. Marries the daughter to the Emperor and
GAME OV- except in his visions of the future he realizes even though he
was really careful the Fremen are still gonna take their jihad out to the stars anyway, so good job Paul, good job.
But what a bloody pickle you're in now, eh? DUUUUUUNE